Brute Force :
For every node in one LL, traverse in the other LL and if both the nodes are same at any point, then we break and give our answer.
TC : O(N*M)
SC : O(1)

Better Approach :
Hashing
Hash all the NODES (NOT VALUES - SINCE ONE NODE CAN HAVE MULTIPLE VALUES) of one LL in the map and iterate the other LL.
If at any point the node is stored in the hash table, then it is the intersection point.

TC : O(N) + O(M) (assuming the hash table to be operating in O(1))
SC : O(N) - storing all the nodes of one LL

Optimal approach 1 :

Take two dummy nodes - each one at both LL
Now, traverse through both the LL simultaneously to find their lengths.
Let the longer be M, smaller be N.
Now, compute their differences - M-N
Traverse the dummy node at the longer side by M-N times to cover the difference between the two LL.
After moving it to M-N distance, move both the dummy nodes simultaneously and if at some point they intersect, then it is our answer.
If both the dummy nodes reach null, then there is no intersection point.

TC : O(M) + O(M-N) + O(N) == O(2M)
SC : O(1)

Here the code is a bit lengthy - Interviewers will not like writing long codes and they prefer only short, crisp codes that are concise to the point.

Optimal approach 2 :

Initialize two dummy nodes, one at each LL.
Move them simultaneously till any one node reaches NULL.
Take the node that reached null and assign it to the head of the other LL.
Again move the nodes, till any one reach null.
This time, the another dummy node will point to null, so take it and assign it to the other LL.
After this step, we can see that both nodes are aligned with each other and moving them simultaneously will give the intersecting node (if the LL intersect).

Why ?

Intuition :

Let M - long - dummy2, N - short - dummy1
First, moving them simultaneously till one of the dummy nodes reaches null takes N steps.
Let dummy1 reached the null first.
Then dummy2 has to cover another M-N distance to reach null.
We take dummy1 and place it at the head node of M.
After M-N distance, dummy2 will reach null and dummy1 have covered M-N distance - it needs to cover N distance now.
Assign dummy2 to N.
Now both are aligned.

Even if there is no intersecting point, at nullptr, both the dummy nodes will meet each other.

TC : O(2M)
SC : O(1)

